The Order of Morning Service


Opening Hymn

P- In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost
C- Amen.
The Confession of Sins

P- Beloved in the Lord! Let us draw near with a true heart
and confess our sins unto God our Father,
beseeching Him in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ
to grant us forgiveness.
Our Help is in the name of the Lord.
C- Who made heaven and earth.
P- I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord.
C- And Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.
P- Almighty God, our Maker and Redeemer, we poor sinners
confess unto Thee that we are by nature sinful and unclean,
and that we have sinned against Thee by thought, word, and deed.
Wherefore we flee for refuge to Thine infinite mercy, seeking and
imploring Thy grace for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ.
C- O most merciful God, who has given Thine only begotten Son
to die for us, have mercy upon us and for His sake grant us
remission of all our sins; and by the Holy Spirit increase in us
true knowledge of Thee and of Thy will and true obedience to Thy Word,
to the end, that by Thy grace we may come to everlasting life;
through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.
P- Almighty God our heavenly Father,
hath had mercy upon us
and hath given His only Son to die for us
and for His sake forgiveth us all our sins.
To them that believe on His name
He giveth the power to become sons of God
and hath promised them His Holy Spirit.
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved.
Grant this, Lord, unto us all.
C- Amen.
Introit


Gloria Patri

Glory be to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Ghost;
as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
world without end. Amen.
The Kyrie

Lord have mercy upon us,
Christ have mercy upon us,
Lord have mercy upon us.
Gloria in Excelsis

Glory be to God on high: And on earth peace, good will toward men.
We praise Thee, we bless Thee, we worship Thee, we glorify Thee,
we give thanks to Thee, for Thy great glory.
O Lord God, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty.
O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ;
O Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father,
That takest away the sin of the world, have mercy upon us.
Thou that takest away the sin of the world, receive our prayer.
Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father, have mercy upon us.
For thou only art holy; Thou only art the Lord.
Thou only, O Christ, with the Holy Ghost,
art most high in the glory of God the Father.
Amen.

The Salutation

P- The Lord be with you.
C- And with thy spirit.
P- Let us Pray (Collect of the Day)
C- Amen.
Epistle Lesson

Gradual

Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
Gospel Lesson

C- Glory be to Thee, O Lord.

P- Here endeth the Gospel
C- Praise be to Thee, O Christ.
The Apostles Creed

I believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth.
And in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord;
Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary;
Suffered and died under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead and buried;
He descended into Hell; the third day he rose again from the dead;
He ascended into heaven and sitteth on the right hand of God the Father Almighty;
From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Ghost, the Holy Christian Church, the communion of saints,
the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen.

Then shall a hymn be sung

The Sermon

The Offertory

Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me,
Cast me not away from Thy presence; and take not Thy Holy Spirit from me.
Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with Thy free spirit.
Amen.

The General Prayer

The Lord’s Prayer

Our Father, who are in heaven, hallowed be Thy name;
Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven;
Give us this day our daily bread and
Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us;
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil;
For Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory;
Forever and ever. Amen.

Then may a hymn be sung
The Collect for the Word

P- Blessed Lord, who has caused all Holy Scripture to be written for our learning,
grant that we may in such wise hear them, read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest them,
that by the patience and comfort of Thy holy Word we may embrace and ever hold fast
the blessed hope of everlasting life which Thou hast given us in our Savior Jesus Christ,
who liveth and reigneth with Thee and the Holy Ghost, ever one God, world without end.
C- Amen.
The Benediction

P- The Lord bless thee and keep thee
The Lord make His face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee,
The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace.
C- Amen, Amen, Amen.

Silent Prayer
